good morning this is Leslie Doyle at the
sweet tomato test garden in las vegas
nevada and this morning we're going to
show you how we deal with the insects
that we found living under our weeds
here in the garden we're getting ready
to plant our fall veggies and when we
pulled out our lisam and spurge and
other things here we found a whole nest
of beetles and Roly Polys and other
things that will nibble our new new
transplanted seedlings so we're going to
show you how we deal with those here is
timba and he's got a bowl of food grade
diatomaceous earth and he's going to
he's going to kill the bugs with it we'd
like this because it kills the bugs
through injuring them instead of by
poisoning them when you poison insects
they tend to build up a resistance to
that poison and it's hard to kill the
future generations
okay Timbo show us how you're going to
do this
we know that when timber lifts the weeds
the bugs are going to roll crawl out of
it and they're going to try and get back
into the soil so we're doing a border so
as they as they run out and try to get
back into the garden they'll have to run
through the de and when they do it'll
get on their bodies and it'll cut them
if it doesn't cut them don't lick it off
if they have tongues and when they do
and they ingest it it'll cut them up in
the inside and they'll die and if there
are if their babies eat them back at the
nest if they make it back to the nest
the babies will die too so we think this
is a cool insect killer now when he gets
that sprinkled on the top of the weeds
he's just going to shake it a little bit
distribute the de through the weeds and
then he's going to carefully pick up the
weeds and put them in
the trashcan let's see if we can see
some little buggies coming out of here
well there's a little guy running I
don't know if you can see this there but
but they're there but they're there and
they're in there they're on the move
then when all of the weeds are in the
can we'll do a little sprinkling of the
food grade diatomaceous earth on top of
the weeds this would be good to put in
your compost pile I don't have a place
to compost here anymore I have a company
that makes my compost and turns it into
tomato lady's soil so this will go into
the landfill by means of the trash
company yes there's a whole bunch of
them crawling here and oh they'll die
they'll run through it and they'll die
so that's a takes care of a good portion
of them we're going to treat a nest of
bugs that's growing under this that is
living underneath this plant it's nice
and cool and shady there so of course
that's where they want to be so in order
to kill them we're circling the plant
with the dry de and then timber will
lift the plant and blast them with the
dry de is a scamper away this is a very
good way to kill squash bugs some people
will use a board and the pin the squash
bugs will crawl under the board but when
you lift the board they tend to run so
the de and the board is a good way to go
if you don't have a board this works too
it's important to remember that the
diatomaceous earth works to kill the
insects when it's dry
whether you're spraying it on the backs
of the leaves to kill insects on the
plant or putting it on the ground it has
to dry or be dry to kill the insects
this is Leslie Doyle at the sweet tomato
test garden in Las Vegas Nevada and I
hope you enjoyed and find useful my
little video on how we take care of
insect pests safely safe for us thank
you if you're having problems growing
vegetables or tomatoes in your desert
garden I might I would like to suggest
buying either one of my books this is
how I garden in Las Vegas Nevada and I
feel that if you do what I do you should
have the same success that I have huge
tomatoes and an abundance of them all
summer long great vegetables all year
long
you can pick food every day of the year